# asciidoctor-chunker

**!!! THIS IS THE OLD VERSION WRITTEN IN LISP.  PLEASE USE THE LATEST JAVASCRIPT VERSION. !!!**

Splits asciidoc book's single HTML file generated by Asciidoctor into chunks by chapters.

## News

- 2021/2/10  Started to work on the more enhanced version in `javascript` branch.  Please wait a couple of weeks.  The new version can control any depth of sections to split.  And even more, each chapter can have different depth of extraction level.   The new version is written in JavaScript so it will be a lot easier to install!
- 2018/7/11  Locally linked files with `link` and `script` tags with relative paths are copied to the destination directory keeping the structure of the relative path.  So the custom CSS and script files should be properly copied by `asciidoctor-chunker`.

## What it dose

Asciidoctor-Chunker generates chunked HTML from a single HTML generated by Asciidoctor.

1. Splits part preambles and chapters into separate files.
1. Places footnotes into the file where they are defined.
1. Re-writes the relative links to point the chunked files.
1. Copies the local images and linked files (with `link` and `script` tags) whose path is relative, to the directory relative to the chunked html output.  Files are only copied if they are new or modified.

Asciidoctor-Chunker does not add any contents nor change the structure of the source HTML.

Here is [the sample output](http://www.seinan-gu.ac.jp/~shito/asciidoctor/html_chunk/index.html) created from the [Asciidoctor User Manual](https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/).  The footer on the sample page is added by setting the asciidoctor attribute and is not added by asciidoctor-chunker.


## How to Install

Asciidoctor-Chunker is written in Common Lisp.  The easiest way to install Lisp environment is to use [Roswell](https://github.com/roswell/roswell).

1. Follow [the instruction here](https://github.com/roswell/roswell/wiki/Installation) to install Roswell.
1. Invoke `ros setup` after installation.  This will install Lisp compiler automatically and sets things up.
1. Install the dependent packages as follows.
    ```
    $ ros install alexandria
    $ ros install lquery
    $ ros install cl-fad
    ```
1. Place `asciidoctor-chunker` folder under `~/common-lisp` directory.
1. Run the script `~/common-lisp/asciidoctor-chunker/roswell/asciidoctor-chunker.ros` as follows.
    ```
    $ asciidoctor-chunker.ros [single-html-file] -o [output-directory]
    ```

`[single-html-file]` is the single HTML file generated by [Asciidoctor](https://asciidoctor.org) from the book doctype.  If the output directory is not specified, the default is `output` under the current directory.

## Example

The project contains the `test` directory where you can generate the chunked html for the [Asciidoctor User Manual](https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/) by invoking `make`.  Simply go into the `test` directory and invoke `make`.  This will clone the asciidoctor project from the github for the first time, then the chunked html will be generated under `test/output-chunk/html_chunk/` directory.  The `index.html` is the first page.

```
$ cd test
$ make
```
